Modify build documents for problems from JOSS reviewers (#3258)
GEOS-DEV/GEOS: src/docs/sphinx/buildGuide/AppleMacOS.rst

.. _AppleMacOS:

Building Apple MacOS
==============

Install homebrew
----------------

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Taken from the [homebrew website](https://brew.sh)
```

.. code-block::

>   /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

Reviewer: maybe replace by link to [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) in case this changes as some point, and then there is also other information on how to setup homebrew.

Author: yes...good idea

>   (echo; echo 'eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"') >> /Users/settgast1/.zprofile

Reviewer: Is this necessary? Don't really like my PATH being modified when I'm installing some package. Also it assumes you are using zsh which should be mentioned (for example I don't).

Reviewer: I mean I have this line in my shell environment too but I know I added it.

Author: This is the recommended path modification from home-brew, but it is specific to my shell. I will better document this and generalize it

>   (echo; echo 'eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"') >> /Users/settgast1/.zprofile

Author: ```suggestion
  (echo; echo 'eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"') >> ~/.zprofile
  
  note: this is the command for `zsh`. Other shells will require different commands. Homebrew should provide the correct command after install is complete.
```

  eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"

Install packages using homebrew
-------------------------------

.. code-block::

>   brew install bison cmake gfortran git-lfs open-mpi lapack python3 ninja m4

Reviewer: I like ninja, but it isn't necessary I guess?

Author: It is not necessary, but  for `geos`, `ninja` does compile much faster than `make`

  echo 'export PATH="/opt/homebrew/opt/m4/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc
  git lfs install

Clone GEOS
----------

.. code-block::

  git clone git@github.com:GEOS-DEV/GEOS.git
  cd GEOS
  git submodule init
  git submodule update
  cd ..

Clone thirdPartyLibs
--------------------

.. code-block::

  git clone git@github.com:GEOS-DEV/thirdPartyLibs.git
  cd thirdPartyLibs
  git submodule init 
  git submodule update
  git lfs pull

Configure and build thirdPartyLibs
---------------------------------

.. code-block::

  python3 scripts/config-build.py -hc ../GEOS/host-configs/apple/macOS_arm.cmake -bt Release

You will get a warning you can ignore

.. code-block::

  CMake Warning at /Users/settgast1/Codes/geos/GEOS/host-configs/tpls.cmake:10 (message):
    'GEOS_TPL_DIR' does not exist.

Continue with the build

.. code-block::

  cd build-macOS_arm-release
  make

You will get an error at the end...you can ignore it.

.. code-block::

  [100%] Linking CXX executable ../../../tests/blt_mpi_smoke
  ld: warning: -commons use_dylibs is no longer supported, using error treatment instead
  ld: file not found: @rpath/libquadmath.0.dylib for architecture arm64

>   clang: error: linker command failed with exit code 1 (use -v to see invocation)

Reviewer 2: I actually don't think I get this error.

Author: really? we are going to have to compare configurations tomorrow. You have an `M1` or an `M2`? I have this error on both `M1` and `M2`. Are you on Sonoma (MacOS 14.6)?

Reviewer 2: `M1`

Reviewer: I do get the linker error (M1 / macOS 13 / apple clang 14)
